I want to just go back to 2008 for a
moment and just even start with a very
big picture sense of it all what do you
think happened that led to 2008 well I
think the main thing but you know
there's all kinds of tributaries feeding
into the big Missouri River on this but
you had people think the housing could
do nothing but go up and and and you had
a a 20 trillion dollar market and
residential housing and so it was a big
big asset class and people started using
it as a currency and basically and they
found out that it wasn't straight up you
know and they borrowed on them and they
and there were levels of participation
up and down the line I mean people at
the top were writing mortgages that they
knew they'd never have to hold so they'd
sell them to some way everybody in
Norway after they'd been put in a
package and and you had people
refinancing they're going that didn't
make any difference whether the monthly
payments were too high he had him lying
on loans and yeah the lenders
participating in it and you basically
just had had a huge speculation in
housing and and 50 million of the 75
million owner occupied homes in the
United States were were mortgaged 25
million were free and they were okay but
but you literally had a crash in the
value of something that 50 million
families owned owned on margin had
thought we're going to go up they base
their living standards on it in many
cases they borrow the unsaid and it was
unlike any widespread financial
participation you know anybody's ever
seen so it
it manifested itself in all kinds of
ways I mean everybody behaved badly but
they believed you know and when people
start believing something kind of crazy
you get that sort of thing it's early
2008 hedge funds with a lot of subprime
mortgages are going under there were a
couple at that point how worried were
you do you remember being worried well I
wasn't worried because I I've always
assumed that in a lifetime of
participating in the American economy
that's going to move forward
dramatically over time and also it's
going to have a lot of hiccups and you
know it's just it's it's part of our
economic system that we will
periodically have some craziness go on
then and so I I I don't try to predict
markets or I don't try to predict
business I just I just try to adapt to
what comes along I did see in the summer
of 2008 I got a call from one of the top
officials of one of the main Wall Street
firms trying to say awesome many many
many billions of dollars worth of equity
securities in Freddie Mac and I knew
something was wrong so take us back I
know if you remember this this is after
Bear Stearns goes down so there's before
before Fannie and Freddie yeah but but
after Bear Stearns you get a call from
Dick Fuld right and he tells you that
his stock is getting killed by short
sellers yeah and when anybody says that
to me I get very suspicious so yeah I'd
love to have short sellers in Berkshire
you know how could how could how does a
short seller hurt you and he says
there's an opportunity for you to invest
somewhere between three to five billion
dollars are you interested
I'm interested in hearing hearing him
out yeah and what did you tell him I
told him tell me what your ideas are and
I'll do some looking at it but tell me
what you'll pay first and and then I'll
know whether I want to do some looking
and so he threw out some tentative
ideas I do remember and actually he said
can I have Hank Paulson call you and so
Hank call about six or seven on a Friday
night and then he stopped short of
giving it totally unqualified
endorsement but he he he was probably
hoping I was going to finance him but he
wasn't going try and saw me too hard
he didn't I'm sure he didn't feel that
was right ah so anyway I spent that
evening going through there probably a
10 gig okay I've got a at the office
still where I made notes as I went
through it and it was 250 or 300 pages
and I just wrote down on the front page
the number of the pages where I was
finding problems and when I go through I
knew that it was not for us because you
saw what I just saw a lot of things that
made me very worried about their
financial condition and and what would
be happening to them under the
circumstances that were happening in
Wall Street now we're in September
September of 2008 and this is Friday
September 12th this is this is the
weekend so the weekend the weekend and
you get a call this time not from Lehman
Brothers but from AIG asking if you'd be
wise did investing 10 billion dollars in
the company yep I said that don't count
on us I know time is of the essence with
you guys so just don't waste it on me so
I'm out at that point now they they
reenter the picture a little later but I
said I can't figure this thing out now
it's just it would have been 27 billion
dollars and we could have paid it if I'd
known what we were getting well the very
fact that they were calling me and you
know sending out stuff Friday evening at
8 o'clock in New York indicated they
were in peril what is a call to warren
buffett mean you think well it means
that they know we will act fast if we
like something so we're the best fast
buyer for anything that
balls in the billions of just about
anybody and and they knew I'm interested
in the property casualty business in
this particular case and and you know
that they are desperate for something
that's gonna close within a few days you
know a lot of people still look back at
that weekend and Lehman Brothers in
particular as this moment of the crisis
and and wonder whether the US government
should have stepped in or not the next
morning the New York Times and The Wall
Street Journal both wrote op EDS
editorials praising if you're that's why
everybody felt a-- to hell with those
guys in wall street if we've had enough
of a middle basically it long ago some
Fed Chairman told me that whatever the
Fed things that can do it could do now
that may have changed some under hard
Scott I mean under dodd-frank but but
that was the prevailing view of at least
one Fed Chairman so you think the Fed
could have done it if they wanted to I
think if I were chairman of the Fed and
I saw would what was going on in the
United States then I think I would have
done whether I could do it or not I mean
are they gonna come down the Supreme
Court going to send down some kind
arrest me as president offenders I mean
I would feel it would be an act that I
should do in the interest of the country
if I were in that position so you thing
was a mistake I don't know I mean
because they they'd have had to
guarantee so much the public opinion can
you imagine public opinion if if all of
a sudden you know people are losing
their houses and facing facing their
being underwater on the and all kinds of
personal problems and all of a sudden
you've guaranteed then that everybody at
AIG is gonna be okay and everybody was
gonna be okay I'm not sure it would have
been it would have been very tough to do
how much political pressure at that time
do you remember was on both Hank and the
Fed and everybody who seems to bail out
there was that was huge I mean I think
that Bernanke I think that Hank Paulson
I think the Tim Geithner I think I think
they didn't know and I think George W
Bush
the right thing I did I think they did
they were rowing and I'm but you weren't
going to sell that to the American
people
Lehman files for bankruptcy Bank of
America buys Merrill Lynch AIG gets
rescued and yet there's still serious
anxiety that GE might go
Goldman Sachs Morgan Stanley
well when Lehman goes the big the big
commercial paper holders
we're money market funds I mean these
things were just hitting one after
another and both Hank and and and
Bernanke had to worry very much about
the Congressional reaction to anything
they did Congress really didn't get it
George Bush got give him great pepper I
didn't go for him but I give him great
credit for understanding just how big
the problem with us and you get a call
later in the week about Goldman Sachs do
you remember that call I remember the
call yeah when Goldman Sachs takes money
you'll remember and what did you think I
thought I did think that we were in very
good hands
a good Congress was one scared me that I
thought we're in good hands at the Fed I
thought we were in good hands with the
Treasury I thought we're in good hands
at the presidency and I thought that
there was there was Goldman Sachs was
sound under any situation except if
markets just totally were closed up then
I think the unsung hero of the whole
thing although it was a stupid thing so
I think the unsung hero was was Ken
Lewis buying by Merrill I mean Merrill
would have been there on Monday morning
you know I I think he got some fairness
opinion that says it was okay to pay 30
bucks he got I think he got it twice
between Saturday at noon or something
and and the deal getting announced on
Sunday morning nobody knew what Merrill
was worked at that time but you got the
Ferriss opinion he says we'll pay for
whatever was $30 in there but it
wouldn't have been worth 30 cents on
money
big mistake then well it wasn't for the
system and then soon a merge worked out
fine
but I mean under the conditions that
existed on Monday morning if Bank of
America announced that purchase on
Sunday it would've just been Lehman the
second that Lehman would not have been
if they backed away from women they know
they'd have to tell Merrill the stand on
its own - and bing-gle bing-gle we when
you look back in retrospect is there
anything you wish that you had done that
you didn't do any investments that you
wish you could have made given I could
look back on a week and come up with
that I mean the the situation and we'd
have been better off considerably better
off at Berkshire if we waited four or
five months to buy anything I mean the
law was set in March and it was much
lower than I wrote that op-ed for the
there are times in late October while it
was right on a long-term basis but but
it was way off for three or four months
four or five months at least was there
ever a moment that you thought that the
system would come up so much the people
I mean that we would be back in sort of
a Great Depression that there really
would be red lines and I mean people it
could it mishandled it could have it
could have lasted quite a while it
wouldn't it wouldn't have lasted as long
as them but it would have really come up
there's no question they're already
gummed up but it would have at some
point the government has to step in I
mean what everybody in the world wants
to wants to deleverage there's only one
party they can love her job there's just
one party and if for some reason they
don't do it you've had it and when you
look back now is there a great lesson
you think for the plug for the public
for new generations of people who were
gonna hopefully learn about and think
about this crisis no because it answers
people always Pat that mean that's why
they set up the Fed that they we had all
kinds of panics in this country in the
19th century when people are afraid they
are afraid confidence comes back one at
a time but fear is instantaneous thing
and and and the negative words how
sophisticated people are whether they've
got PhDs or they guess when they are
afraid they are afraid I know a number
of
people that would surprise you whoo-hooo
during that paddock period subsequently
you know went right to gold and but
nothing would be worth anything and you
know I mean it it people really the fear
is extraordinary with what most people
do you draw any parallel or connection
between the crisis ten years ago now and
the the politics of today and the
distrust of institutions and governments
and people have long memories just like
they did after 1929 took a long time I
made people when they think when they'd
experienced extreme fear it Sears
something into them where that a they
want to know who did it to him and and
and they correctly don't blame
themselves I mean you know they're not
supposed to be finance experts or
anything all these it was buy a house
and lie a little bit on the application
you know I'm just figured as we're gonna
go up and then they'd they'd refinance
and so on that mean that who's gonna buy
him anybody for that is there anyone to
blame for the crisis because that's been
also a political you can blame a lot of
people for doing very foolish things but
I don't think anybody was I mean that
there's a certain number of people are
doing crooked things all the time and to
some extent they were attracted to the
real-estate market because the money was
flowing so easily I mean when you can
create a mortgage you know in in
Bakersfield California and sell it to
somebody in Norway and and then when you
get you get these permutations of these
things where you get one instrument this
turbine on in other words I mean the
calculation once on one security I saw
that been rated by the agencies and I'd
had to read 300,000 pages in order to
understand both the primary security and
then the ones it was dependent on and so
on and it just gets you know and nothing
goes wrong for a while so everybody gets
used to doing it it it's it won't happen
again do you worry about another crisis
well they'll be one sometime but but no
I don't worry about it in the least
because cuz I conduct myself well if
there's no crisis
we'll be around Burchell begin good in
good shape what do you look around today
and say okay I got to be anxious about
that well as that appreciation draws in
people that really don't know anything
about the asset and people start they
start being interested in something
because it's going up not because they
understand anything else but the guy
next door who they know is dumber than
they are is getting rich and they aren't
and their spouse is saying you know
can't you figure it out too and I mean
it it is so contagious so that that's a
permanent part of the system but in
terms of the specific excesses I don't I
don't see them now no are we better
prepared for another crisis do you look
either the regulations or that's an
interesting question because I've been
I've never read dodd-frank in its full
2000 plus phase every little summaries I
am the impression and I may be wrong on
this but I have the impression that it's
somewhat weakens the ability of the Fed
act promptly and unilaterally and I
would say that's a terrible mistake and
we need a powerful Fed you may not like
them they may do things that that that
bother you is in there but you need
somebody that if this country with now a
hundred trillion of household wealth
with now seventy five million plus or
the dozens come to a stop because
everybody's trying to deleverage was
there ever a moment in that week where
you either between everybody calling you
were talking you thought wow we really
innocent
well I described it actually on CNBC is
an economic Pearl Harbor that's not a
term I've ever used before so I mean I I
was using I felt it was something
different then then I never seen and I
thought it was actually worse than
twenty nine in a sense
in terms of the immediate panic that was
induced in 1929 if you remember in
September 29 the Dow hit a high of 381
then it collapsed in the fall but I was
born on August 30th 1930 and it was back
up to 250 something by that point I mean
we didn't it didn't hit that many people
it
you know he did everybody in Wall Street
but Wall Street wasn't as broad than
remotely as it is now you know with
401ks or whatever maybe so this homes
that touches everybody